Usually, a new country gets its name by some specificies which are characteristically for that particular land.

Roughly, it is possible to make a group of four aspects on which countries get its name:

Ethnic groups or people who live there
Land feature
Directional placement
Characteristics of that particular country
For some particular person
Let’s go over these characteristics:

Ethnic groups or people who live there
A third of the world’s countries got its name by the older group of the people who lived in the area. For example, France get its own name by Franks, Italy for the Vitali tribe[1] or Switzerland for the Schwyz and so on. It is interesting to mention that some countries used a historic name so that they can promote the national unity like when Gold Coast became in 1957 Ghana.


Map 1: The South America with the meaning of the country names.[2]

Land feature
Some countries got its name thanks to the land feature - topography. it is second biggest group. Algeria is named after its capital city Algiers which means the islands. The capital city Algiers used to have islands near the city’s coast before they became the part of the mainland. In this group you can add: Iceland, Montenegro, Greenland and so on…


Map 2: Africa with the meaning of the country names.[3]

Directional placement
There are cca. 25 countries who got names due to their location. One of them are Australia. Its name comes from a hypothetical continent called Terra Australis Incognita meaning Unknown Southern Land [4] or Nippon (Japan) which means Land of the rising sun.


Map 3: Oceania with the meaning of the country names.[5]

Characteristics of that particular country
Some countries decided to use the words which describes the best they uniques. This uniques can be attributes and characteristics connected for that particular country. Burkina Faso means The land of honest man.


Map 4: Asia with the meaning of the country names.[6]

For some particular person
Other got its name by some particular person of importance. The Philippines are named after Spain’s 16th country King Philip II or Bolivia is named after Simon Bolivar.


Map 5: Europe with the meaning of the country names. [7]


Map 6: North America with the meaning of the country names.[8]

If you want to know for every particular country the origin of the name, I am recommending you to check out this links:

List of country-name etymologies - Wikipedia
An A-Z of country name origins | OxfordWords blog
r/etymology - List of country-name etymologies
10 Fascinating Tales Of How Countries Got Their Names - Listverse
How did it happen that countries and cities got different names in different languages?
This World Map Of Literally Translated Country Names Will Amaze You
PS: Maps are puted randomly in the case you think that they have something in common with the classification, they don’t.Some of this maps have different meaning of the origin of particular country. In that case, please use the links I put them. I did that so that you could see that there is more then one explanation.

Footnotes

[1] How was the name Italy invented?

[2] This map shows the literal meaning of every country’s name

[3] This map shows the literal meaning of every country’s name

[4] Nearly every country on Earth is named after one of these four things

[5] This map shows the literal meaning of every country’s name

[6] This map shows the literal meaning of every country’s name

[7] This map shows the literal meaning of every country’s name

[8] This map shows the literal meaning of every country’s name
